This is Warren Buffett, one of the
richest people in the world, thanks to
the company he runs, Berkshire Hathaway.
Basically, it's a holding company that
just owns a bunch of other companies,
Geico, Dairy Queen, a huge railroad, as
well as a lot of stock in other
companies, like Apple and Coca -Cola.
So when those companies do well and their
stock goes up, Berkshire Hathaway stock
goes up.
When Buffett took over the company in
1965, a single share was worth $19.
Today, it's worth nearly half a million dollars.
Buffett owns nearly 240 ,000 of these shares.
This is where his wealth is.
But as he's been known for pointing out,
Warren Buffett still pays a lower tax
rate than his secretary.
She pays at twice the rate I pay.
I think that's outrageous.
That's because they pay different types
of taxes.
His secretary pays income taxes on her
salary, but Buffett mainly pays capital
gains taxes on his sold stock.
And that's taxed at nearly half the rate.
The wealthy are definitely under -taxed.
In the US, the disparity between the
richest Americans and everyone else has
been growing.
And in the last 40 years, the after -tax
income of the richest has risen more than
400%, while middle -class income has only
risen 50%.
The way these people make money is very
different than the way these people make money.
And they're not taxed the same.
I pay less in taxes than people that work
for a living and make as much money as I do.
This is Morris.
He used to work on Wall Street.
Now, he's retired and lives off his many
stock market investments.
I own stock in companies like Berkshire
Hathaway and Amazon and Apple.
He's a pretty typical 1 -percenter,
except that he spends his money
advocating for rich people like him to be
taxed more.
I want to live in a country filled with a
middle class of people who can all afford
to shop in our businesses.
Most people have a normal job.
They get a paycheck and pay income tax,
ranging from 10 % to 37%.
But people like Morris, they make a lot
of their income from investments,
generally stocks in real estate.
These investments are taxed as capital
gains, and things like long -term stock
have a maximum tax rate of just 20%.
I sold some stock recently for $400 ,000,
and my taxes on that are around $50 ,000.
But that $50 ,000 is far less tax than
anyone who has a job making $400 ,000 a
year would pay.
And most of his wealth, well, isn't even taxable.
People like Morris or Buffett are worth
so much money because of the stock that
they hold, but it's not tangible,
spendable, taxable money.
I can look at my stock portfolio and say,
oh, you know, I made $1 million this year.
But it doesn't have to be anything in
taxes, because our system is based on
only paying taxes when you actually sell something.